What happens when you initialize a repository? Why do you need to do it?
By running git init, .git folder is created in the directory. OFF
$git log  
current branch master, no commit.

$git status
no commit yet. with untracked files. Run "git add <file>..." to include what will be commited.
This makes a normal directory into git repository.

How is the staging area different from the working directory and the repository? What value do you think it offers?

$git add <file>    OFF
add file to Staging area.
Makes the stage what to commit next. Make it possible to have 1commit per logical change.

How can you use the staging area to make sure you have one commit per logical change?

commit is a snapshot of repository at a particular time. With staging you need not commit every thing in working directory, you have a separate place to stage what to commit.   OFF

What are some situations when branches would be helpful in keeping your history organized? How would branches help?

want to work on some experimental feature.
not part of present deliverable.

You can check out a particular branch with it's label, can make changes on that branch and commit.
By default a repository comes with only a master branch. You can create more branches when needed and work.

How do the diagrams help you visualize the branch structure?

It help me understand... branch structure, master branch,commit-ID vs.branch,detached Head State message.

What is the result of merging two branches together? Why do we represent it in the diagram the way we do?

git merge   Always merges all the commits from specified branches into the currently checked out branch, creating a new commit for that branch.

In diagram it is easier to understand which is the current branch and what branches are merged with it to create a new commit for that branch.

What are the pros and cons of Git’s automatic merging vs. always doing merges manually?

aumatic merge is possible when 2 persons are working on differnet parts of the same file.
Otherwise it is good choise to do manual merging as file authors are expert about that file.
When automatic merging is possible it is waste of energy to do manual merging.















